12 TableHttp/readme.md, before:

# 12 Table Http

Let's move forward with the table sample, this time we are going to replace the
mock data by real one.

We will take a startup point sample _11 TableMock_:

Summary steps:

- Install promises dependencies and typescript definitions.
- Update API in order to work with promises and fetch data from Github API.
- Update the _tableComponent_ in order to show this data.


## Prerequisites

Install [Node.js and npm](https://nodejs.org/en/) (v6.6.0 or newer) if they are not already installed on your computer.

> Verify that you are running at least node v6.x.x and npm 3.x.x by running `node -v` and `npm -v` in a terminal/console window. Older versions may produce errors.

## Steps to build it

- Copy the content from _11 TableMock_ and execute `npm install`.

- Let's add the dependencies to manage promises and typescript definitions

 - **[core-js](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js)**: includes polyfills for ECMAScript 5, ECMAScript 6: **promises**, symbols, collections, iterators, typed arrays, ECMAScript 7+ proposals, setImmediate, etc.

    ```
    npm install core-js --save-dev
    ```

 - **[whatwg-fetch](https://github.com/github/fetch)**: AJAX calls.

    ```
    npm install whatwg-fetch --save
    ```

 - Typescript definitions for core-js and whatwg-fetch.

    ```
    npm install @types/core-js --save-dev
    npm install @types/whatwg-fetch --save-dev
    ```

- Let's remove the file _mermberMockData.ts_ in _src/api_ directory.

- Let's replace _memberAPI_ load members with the fetch / promise one:

  ```javascript
  import {MemberEntity} from '../model/member';
  import {} from 'core-js';
  import {} from 'whatwg-fetch';

  // Sync mock data API, inspired from:
  // https://gist.github.com/coryhouse/fd6232f95f9d601158e4
  class MemberAPI {

    // Just return a copy of the mock data
    getAllMembers() : Promise<MemberEntity[]> {
      const gitHubMembersUrl : string = 'https://api.github.com/orgs/lemoncode/members';

      return fetch(gitHubMembersUrl)
        .then((response) => this.checkStatus(response))
        .then((response) => this.parseJSON(response))
        .then((data) => this.resolveMembers(data));
    }

    private checkStatus(response : Response) : Promise<Response> {
      if (response.status >= 200 && response.status < 300) {
        return Promise.resolve(response);
      } else {
        let error = new Error(response.statusText);
        throw error;
      }
    }

    private parseJSON(response : Response) : any {
      return response.json();
    }

    private resolveMembers (data : any) : Promise<MemberEntity[]> {

      const members = data.map((gitHubMember) => {
        var member : MemberEntity = new MemberEntity();

        member.id = gitHubMember.id;
        member.login = gitHubMember.login;
        member.avatar_url = gitHubMember.avatar_url;

        return member;
      });

      return Promise.resolve(members);
    }
  }

  export const memberAPI = new MemberAPI();
  ```

- Now it's time to update our _membersTable_ component. <br />
  Let's consume the new promise base method to retrieve the users:

  ```jsx
  // Standard react lifecycle function:
  // https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/component-specs.html
  public componentWillMount() {
    memberAPI.getAllMembers().then((members) =>
      this.setState({members: members})
    );
  }
  ```

Commit message:

Update readme.md: add npm start final step. This closes Lemoncode/react-by-sample#20

12 TableHttp/readme.md, after:

# 12 Table Http

Let's move forward with the table sample, this time we are going to replace the
mock data by real one.

We will take a startup point sample _11 TableMock_:

Summary steps:

- Install promises dependencies and typescript definitions.
- Update API in order to work with promises and fetch data from Github API.
- Update the _tableComponent_ in order to show this data.


## Prerequisites

Install [Node.js and npm](https://nodejs.org/en/) (v6.6.0 or newer) if they are not already installed on your computer.

> Verify that you are running at least node v6.x.x and npm 3.x.x by running `node -v` and `npm -v` in a terminal/console window. Older versions may produce errors.

## Steps to build it

- Copy the content from _11 TableMock_ and execute:

  ```
  npm install
  ```

- Let's add the dependencies to manage promises and typescript definitions

 - **[core-js](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js)**: includes polyfills for ECMAScript 5, ECMAScript 6: **promises**, symbols, collections, iterators, typed arrays, ECMAScript 7+ proposals, setImmediate, etc.

    ```
    npm install core-js --save-dev
    ```

 - **[whatwg-fetch](https://github.com/github/fetch)**: AJAX calls.

    ```
    npm install whatwg-fetch --save
    ```

 - Typescript definitions for core-js and whatwg-fetch.

    ```
    npm install @types/core-js --save-dev
    npm install @types/whatwg-fetch --save-dev
    ```

- Let's remove the file _mermberMockData.ts_ in _src/api_ directory.

- Let's replace _memberAPI_ load members with the fetch / promise one:

  ```javascript
  import {MemberEntity} from '../model/member';
  import {} from 'core-js';
  import {} from 'whatwg-fetch';

  // Sync mock data API, inspired from:
  // https://gist.github.com/coryhouse/fd6232f95f9d601158e4
  class MemberAPI {

    // Just return a copy of the mock data
    getAllMembers() : Promise<MemberEntity[]> {
      const gitHubMembersUrl : string = 'https://api.github.com/orgs/lemoncode/members';

      return fetch(gitHubMembersUrl)
        .then((response) => this.checkStatus(response))
        .then((response) => this.parseJSON(response))
        .then((data) => this.resolveMembers(data));
    }

    private checkStatus(response : Response) : Promise<Response> {
      if (response.status >= 200 && response.status < 300) {
        return Promise.resolve(response);
      } else {
        let error = new Error(response.statusText);
        throw error;
      }
    }

    private parseJSON(response : Response) : any {
      return response.json();
    }

    private resolveMembers (data : any) : Promise<MemberEntity[]> {

      const members = data.map((gitHubMember) => {
        var member : MemberEntity = new MemberEntity();

        member.id = gitHubMember.id;
        member.login = gitHubMember.login;
        member.avatar_url = gitHubMember.avatar_url;

        return member;
      });

      return Promise.resolve(members);
    }
  }

  export const memberAPI = new MemberAPI();
  ```

- Now it's time to update our _membersTable_ component. <br />
  Let's consume the new promise base method to retrieve the users:

  ```jsx
  // Standard react lifecycle function:
  // https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/component-specs.html
  public componentWillMount() {
    memberAPI.getAllMembers().then((members) =>
      this.setState({members: members})
    );
  }
  ```

- Let's give a try and check the results

  ```
  npm start
  ```
